From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lauren's Ryan announcing show
number one 28. Recorded live
Thursday, September 4th, 2008. Support for handful
of minutes is provided by
Tellerik RSV controls. The most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdotterik.com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks, object oriented Ajax with
Scott Kate. Hi, this is
Scott Hansen And this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
I'm sitting here in Sydney,
Australia at tech ed, Australia,
myself and Scott, Kate have
just come on done two
different tickets. We were at
ticket and New Zealand in Auckland,
just a couple of days
ago, and now we're in
tech at Sydney and tomorrow
you're going to be finishing
your last talk. Scott, you're
going to be talking about
object oriented Ajax. That's right.
I thought JavaScript was object
jointed already. Yeah. So most
people would probably think that
I'm actually exactly the opposite.
There's truly no such thing
as object oriented Ajax. In
fact, if you look at
JavaScript in general, which obviously
is where Ajax comes from,
everything in JavaScript can be
simplified to a hash table.
Everything is named value pair.
So if you're looking at
adjacent object, you have name
value pair. That value may
be, you know, an array
of other name, value pairs,
but literally everything in JavaScript
can be simplified to a
hash table. So there's really
no such thing as object
oriented Ajax. However, there is
some icing on the cake
that Microsoft Ajax library gives
you object oriented, like features
that make it very easy
for.net developers to use technologies
that they're used to on
the server inside of JavaScript.
Like a perfect example is
the event architecture. So if
you've ever double clicked on
a button inside of visual
studio and then went to
your code behind page on
asp.net, you've probably seen the
signature is in C sharp
is void object sender event
arcs E well, it would
be great if in JavaScript
you could have that same
style of signature. And so
you have something called raise
event and you can raise
an event. And when that
happens, you get the sender
and you get the event
arc. So my talk tomorrow
is about object oriented Ajax.
And really what it's about
is making the, the.net developer
skillset available to the JavaScript.
So how, how are events
in this library different from
the kind of events I'm
used to like Dom events
and onload and things like
that? Well, they're actually, they're,
they're not different. They're, they're
very similar. The events that
I'm particularly talking about are
the events that you have
control over. So when people
write JavaScript, typically they're going
back to like the 1980
or the 1990, very sloppy
kind of spaghetti code Java
script, where I just have
this one thing that I
want to change the background
color of an item to
red, and I'll use JavaScript
for that. Or I have
some data that I've gotten
back from a service call
from Microsoft Ajax, because I
use this really cool script
manager. And now I'll go
through a set of four,
four loops and then I'll
draw out a table or
something specific. But typically the,
the JavaScript is very, as
I mentioned, spaghetti code, and
when you start putting objects
together, then you can expose
events off of those objects.
And then you become too.
Then you start to build
a framework inside of JavaScript
instead of just spaghetti code
of doing one little firework
piece of code. Okay. So,
so what is this prototype?
Everyone always talks about, they
say JavaScript and the prototype.
I think I know that
there's a library called prototype.
Is there some kind of
an object called prototype or
property that allows us to
do objects and ingest? There's
definitely some confusion there. So
a prototype is a keyword
in JavaScript and it gives
you the ability to append
a method to an already
existing object. So if you
have an object that's given
to you by somebody else,
you can prototype that object
and then add functionality to
it. So in, in the,
in a comparison to the
server world, prototype might be
what you know, on the
server with an extension method.
So it's a type that
already exists. Somebody else wrote
it. So you're not in
charge of it, but it's
handed to you and you
say, Hey, I would really
like that object to do
my thing. And then, so
that, that's what the whole
program Did they write those
objects as prototypes as well?
I mean, if I was
going to start from scratch
and make a person object,
I mean, you said that
it's not object oriented. So
typically what would happen is
remember everything goes back to
being a simple name, value
pair. So your person object
would probably immediately have something
synonymous with properties. So you'd
have first name, last name,
street, address, city, state, zip.
Those would probably just be
defined as person dot person
dot first name, person dot
last name. And the methods
would be prototyped onto person.
So if you had something
like age, or we just
say, you would say person
dot get AIDS, which would
do a calculation on versus
Maybe it would lie about
their age or something like
that, or do some sort
of work, right. Then you
would typically prototype that onto
the, the original. So in
a standard optic oriented language,
we're familiar with declarations. You
know, I declare that there
is a thing called Persian
and I declare that it
looks like this, right? But
in JavaScript, there's not any
declarations. There's simply code that
is executing. So I'm going
not to declare that there
isn't a thing, but I'm
going to create a, an
empty object, an object that
knows nothing about anything and
then starts to spot welding
onto it. That's correct methods.
And then at the end
I have the equivalent of,
you know, an object kind
of in air quotes. I
have an object and then
I can start calling methods
and amusing properties, but it's
a Similac room. It's And
you hope that they're there.
And you may, you may
know that they're there either
because you wrote them or
from past experience or you
found out through a debugger,
but another thing you don't
have from a true object
oriented language is encapsulation. So
if you think about a
private member and a public
property or a property with
a backing field with JavaScript,
because everything does truly get
simplified down to a hash
table, you cannot really hide
anything from anybody. So let's
say that I have on
the server in C sharp,
I could have a person
class with a birthday field
and maybe the birthday is
sent in as the constructor.
And then I can have
a public age property that
was calculated from the birthday,
right? There's nothing stopping anyone
from JavaScript to actually inspecting
that person class to say,
Hey, what's this a birthday
field. Let's set that to
1801. And now all of
a sudden you're 200 years
old, which violates your business
logic. So the only encapsulation
is by a pattern. And
so typically the private properties
in JavaScript are going to
be prefaced with an underscore.
And the what we'll call
public properties will be prefaced
with a get and set
access. Yes, sir. So that
means that Java script isn't
object oriented. But if we
all pretend that it is
and come up with some
conventions, then we can, we
can all lie to each
other and we get the
benefits of an object oriented
language, but it's not really
In a sense. That's correct.
I don't really like the
term pretend because it kind
of makes it like it's
child's play. But really, I
think at the end of
the day, what's what's happening
with any library is trying
to make your life easier.
And the library is saying,
you already know how to
do something one way and
it would be great if
you had the ability to
continue using the knowledge base
that you already have. Okay.
So this is object orientation
via convention rather than via
mandate. That's correct. But it's
also giving me ability to
do things and enforce rules
that I otherwise wouldn't have,
for example, implementing an interface.
And when I throw that
out, people go, Oh, wow,
that's weird. You can't implement
an interface in JavaScript. First
of all, there's no such
thing as an interface in
JavaScript. So I mean, how
can you even implement something
that doesn't there or something
that doesn't exist? So what
the Microsoft asp.net Ajax framework
does is it does in
fact, give you a type
of interface. And when you
define an interface, just like
on the server, you're only
defining the contract. You're not
defining any sort of implementation.
And then when you register
a class, you have the
ability to define how that
class is being inherited from.
So what its parent is
as well as the interfaces
that it implements. And when
that class gets registered, the
Ajax library goes through and,
and confirms that in fact,
you have added all the
methods to that class that
are required by that interface.
And if you haven't, it'll
throw an exception for you.
And then, you know, even
that may raise some eyebrows
and say, well, what does
that mean? Throw an exception.
You're still in JavaScript. And
it just means that it
literally will throw an error
and, and either give you
a dialogue or depending on
how you're handling that air.
So again, how we started
the conversation, the idea of
the Microsoft, a asp.net Ajax
library is to just take
something that you already know
and give you the ability
to go with that, right.
In, in JavaScript, The term
Microsoft Ajax has been kind
of from a marketing perspective,
kind of unfortunately overloaded because
there's, there's the Ajax control
toolkit, which gives us accordion
controls and calendars and stuff.
Right. Then there's the MSA
Jack server side kind of
experienced dragging controls onto the
Yeah. Update panel magic. Yeah.
The panel and the script
manager. Right. But then there's
this  client library, which
I think a lot of
people don't realize it's just
another JavaScript that you could
take. If you want it
to be a PHP programmer
who used MSA Jack's client,
it's just out there, right.
It's a source Libraries, right?
You mentioned one prototype. There's
also jQuery. And now we
have this MSA jacks and
there are a couple of
different pieces. So just given
everybody kind of a 32nd
tour of what's available first,
you have a script manager,
which is the ultimate requirement,
script manager is in charge
of delivering all scripts that
are required by the framework.
So script manager though, you're
giving us this tour from
the point of view and
asp.net programmer a yes. So
we should refer to make
sure that we're talking about
service eye controls versus actual
files. Cause I'd also like
to know whether someone can
use MSA jacks from Ruby.
Yeah, absolutely. And from whatever.
Okay. So, so I'll further
define the definition of those
controls and where they live.
So starting on the server,
as an ASP net developer,
you have an ASP colon
script manager control, and the
script manager control really only
has one goal in life.
And that is to deliver
the appropriate scripts to the
person who's requesting your page,
which ultimately ends up being
either the browser or your
smartphone. And it delivers the
right type of script. So
it knows whether you're in
debug mode or whether you're
in runtime. It also does
some really smart things with
being able to combine those
scripts together. There are people
out there who've written minification
scripts. They have the, I
mean, you know, it's it's
general goal is to get
scripts to the client. And
just in closing those scripts,
both control your scripts as
well as the framework scripts.
And so when we talk
about the framework scripts, we're
actually talking about the client
side library and the client
side library is going to
be responsible for all the
communication that happens between the
client and the server. So
that's where the asynchronous calls
happen. Okay. So for example,
you can not have any
update panel functionality without the
script manager, because those scripts
can not be delivered to
the page. Now, going back
to your question earlier, can
you use these scripts inside
of another library? Yeah. And
the answer is absolutely because
once you get down to
the client, now you're pure
JavaScript. And once you're on
the client, it doesn't matter
what language you're using on
the server. You can very
easily include these scripts. And
inside the scripts, you have
all of the object oriented,
goodness that I'm talking about
as well as a huge
array of prebuilt objects that
are beneficial for you. So
you have something like a
cyst dot web request and
CIS dot string and SIS,
that string builder in a
bunch of other objects that
are just built and kind
of hand it over to
you. Hmm. So this client
library, I can use it
in MVC. I wouldn't need
necessarily a script manager. I
just have to figure out
on my own what to
deliver The client manager it's
JavaScript. Right. It doesn't have
it doesn't know, it doesn't
even know what a server
And this is something that's
separately licensed. I understand you
can download it and you
can call up on COVID
Plex and see. So I
think what you're looking you're
referring to there might be
the control toolkit. Okay. Isn't
the, I understand that there's
a separate, I thought there
was a separate place on
copex. If you could get
the client scripts, just download
it as a, as a,
as a sub file. I
know that there's been different
places. You can get it,
but I'd have to defer
to somebody else. I don't
know. Well, the real question
that I'm interested in is
that I hear amongst kind
of JavaScript the JavaScript elite,
the digerati that they kind
of poo poo MSH ex,
and, and I haven't spent
a lot, I have to
admit, I haven't spent a
lot of time with MSA
jacks. Right. Which is why
I'm talking to you. I'm
more of a jQuery guy.
And so when I talked
to the kind of the
jQuery bigots or the MooTools
or the mochi bigots, or
the guy, there's nothing MSA
techs, they got a string
builder. That's all that is.
But you think it's, it's
actually very complimentary to those
other libraries. It's a lot
more than, than that. So,
well, first let's just pause
on string builder for a
moment for those people that
are done at developers, one
of your favorite and probably
most commonly used objects on
the server is a string
builder. And it's very simply
an object that will let
you append multiple strings to
each other. And then at
the very end, you say,
okay, give me everything I
got, right? And then you
just get this one giant
long string. So something you'll
commonly use inside of a
four loop or, you know,
pass it around. You don't
know the end of this
thing. You just know you're
going to keep tacking stuff
onto the end while you
can do something like that
in JavaScript with an array.
And many people have been
doing it for years and
you'll see code like array,
square bracket, array dot length,
square bracket equals. And that's
basically popping something onto the
end of an array. And
then at the very end
of that, after you've done
all of this work, then
you'll do something like array
dot join with no space.
And that's basically a poor,
man's a JavaScript string builder.
Okay. Well the Microsoft Ajax
client side library has something
like that built in, and
it, it allows you to
do something like VAR SB
equals new CIS dot string
builder. And then you can
do it SB dot append,
which is a lot easier
than the square bracket, array
dot length, et cetera. So
it really behaves like a
string builder that we're already
used to, and it happens
inside of it. Okay. It
has a two string method.
So when you're done using
it, you say SB dot
two string, and you get
what you need. Okay. There's
a bunch of methods on
that. Two string, one of
which is missing is a
pen format. So I'm going
a big, I'm a big
format guy. I like to
do string dot format and
you send in a mask
and then you can pass
in an array of parameters
after that. But the string
builder doesn't have that. And
so going back to what
we talked about earlier with
the prototype is you can
easily append that method. I
guess that's kind of a
play on words, append format
with a prototype. So you
can easily add that functionality,
but getting into the jQuery
things. I'm a fan of
jQuery. Also. I can't say
that I'm an expert at
it, but I've gone through
the tutorials online and the,
the jQuery has a lot
of functionality, but I would
say there's a different, a
definite differential between the Microsoft
Ajax client side library and
jQuery, because jQuery is going
to work with data that
you already have downloaded. So
I've got this Dom and
now I want to change
all of my specific selected
elements, whether those are P
tags or H ones or
H ones that are nested
inside of other tags, you
know, whatever your select or
happens to be. And I
want to massage the data
after I've already received it
from the server, but where
Microsoft Ajax comes in really
is to handle that communication
layer for you back to
the server. It handles the
serialization of your objects. So
it knows how to do
a web service. There is
adjacent serializer and D serializer,
and there may be a
little bit of overlap there
with jQuery, but typically Microsoft
Ajax is going to be
my, my object oriented, JavaScript
style programming, if you will.
And that's what my talks
on at the conferences, which
we've, we've really gotten a
lot of good feedback on
because people just don't know
that these types of services
are available for you in
Ajax. Yeah. But then jQuery
is really going to be
your select and modify, select
something from what you already
have and then make it
easy to modify, which is
phenomenal. I mean, I'm a
huge fan of the, the
tidiness of, of jQuery and
also the simplicity in the
work that they've done with
making those selectors very easy
to use. Yeah. The syntax
is pretty, pretty extraordinary. It
seems like those two libraries
compliment each other very well.
I mean, if you're the
way that you described it
is that you're selecting and
modifying and manipulating your current
document, but where's that new
data coming from, it's coming
back from, from MSA Ajax.
Yeah. I think that they're
very complimentary as well. There's
probably some overlap and again,
I'm not a jQuery expert,
so I can't speak to
it. Where on the Microsoft
Ajax side, I think I've
probably stepped through just about
every line of code in
the library. That's the one
phenomenal thing about Ajax or,
or JavaScript specifically. You're not
allowed to hide anything. Right?
Cause even if you wanted
to, I mean, at best
you can obviously skate it,
but I can still step
through with the, with a
debugger like visual studio. I
can see all the variable
names. I know what they're
doing. I know where they
came from. In fact, that's
how I learned the Ajax
library. When it first came
out was if you add
a script manager to a
page and then attached to
the running process of your
page inside of visual studio,
if you look at the
very bottom, you'll see us
something like assist.page request manager
dot initialize. And if you
set a break point there,
yeah, you can pretty much
step through the whole framework.
You can see how it
gets initialized and then you
can add other breakpoints. And
you know, you just walk
through the, the framework right
there. Not only are they
not allowed to not hide
anything from you, it's impossible
because there's no compilation. There's
no hiding. I mean, if
you want it to run,
you have to give me
the script. And once you
give me the script, I'm
allowed to look through it.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
with a word from our
sponsor. Do you know how
to build web 2.0 Ajax
applications with web 1.0 components?
You really can't. If you
want to do the next
generation web applications you'll need
next generation components. Just like
the ones that our friends
at Telerik have got their
rad controls for ESPN at
Ajax. It's a huge pack
of web controls built on
top of asp.net. Ajax. That'll
add previously impossible performance interactivity
to your next project. The
new controls mirror, the Ajax
API from asp.net. So development
is really straightforward. The client
scripts are shared. So loading
time is not a problem.
If you just set a
couple of properties and you'll
be able to automatically bind
a web services for a
really efficient operation, the new
rad editor from ESPN Ajax,
Telerik loads up to four
times faster than before. And
the new rad grid handles
thousands of records and just
milliseconds, but as always, it's
best to try for yourself.
So you can visit
dot com slash ASP, net
Ajax, and download a trial.
Thanks a lot. I've seen,
I've seen your product that
you've got easy DB and
the interface is pretty extraordinary.
I mean, it's a whole
windowing environment and there's constant
communications back and forth. It's
almost like, you know, Microsoft
access in the browser. You
know, it's kind of like
the Gmail of database applications
or what JavaScript libraries are
you using to make that
What happened to make that
whole application? So just a
little clarification. The product is
actually cloud db.com. Okay. And
the reason you mentioned easy
to be.com is because our,
our free public offering is
an instance of cloud db.com.
That's running on easy DB.
So the product that we're
actually selling is hosted on
cloud DB. But the interface
that you've seen is, is
highly JavaScript enabled. It's very
web 3.0, if you will,
I'm not going to coin
a term or anything, but
no, it's, it's, it's pretty
far ahead of its time.
And there's a lot of
windows that pop up and
the communication layer there again,
here's a good differentiation between
the different libraries that are
at play. The communication layer
is 100% Microsoft Ajax. So
cloud DB is actually a
service where you don't necessarily
know the hardware that's behind
it. All you have as
an end point. And with
Microsoft Ajax, we give you
that endpoint in a JavaScript
as an, as a JavaScript
object. Okay? So using something
simple, like the script manager,
you have total control over
serializing that proxy down to
JavaScript. And then you can
simply say, you know, cloud
db.save new record, and you
send that data back. So
you had been saying SIS
dot this and says dot
that that's, Microsoft's kind of
a namespace that they've taken
over. Exactly. And if I
was going to go and
write an asp.net MVC application,
and I wanted to use
a backing database, I would
go and get an instance
of cloud DB, right. I
pay, buy this from you.
And you'd give me a
JavaScript library that would let
me go. Cloud db.is in
that cloud to be hanselminutes.com.
And then you would code
against that as your end
point. And then you're using
H MSA checks underneath that
for the communication. Well, our
UI. So remember Ajax is
all about UI, right? So
we're talking about two different
things. One is the service,
Me consuming a reusable library.
I buy your product and
I consume your library. You're
using MSA Jack's client library
to talk back to your
end point. That's the option
that we've chose to use
for the easy to be
implementation, right? So if you
go to a beta, easy
to beat.com, there's some very
age ACCE, web style support.
Okay. And that's all happening.
That communication layer is all
happening back up to the
cloud, which is a WCF
service, which is rendered as
an SMX end point. Okay.
So that's currently just, we
have two options for that.
One is POCs, right? Playing
Alexa, Mel. And that's, if
you point up to the
ASM X and you get
that with still proxy coming
back from visual studio or
with the JavaScript, you just
do the M dot SMX
slash JS, right. And then
you get the JavaScript representation
of that data. So we
get that for free, right.
Microsoft built all that work
for me. So we just
utilize it and love it.
It makes our job easy.
So I'm just trying to
understand the layering here, as
far as could I write
an academic, an application and
I could talk to your
backend. Absolutely. And I'm hearing
that there's the client side
proxy created by M as
a MEK slash JS, right?
There's CIS dot this and
that from the ms. Ajax
client library. I see the
confusion. Have you written a,
an additional cloud DB specific
library? No. Okay. Only using
what we get for free
out of, out of Microsoft.
So really what it boils
down to is generating our
proxy. And that's what cloudy
B dot this and that
That's right. So if you
were programming against cloud DB
out of visual studio, you
would just go right against
the SMX, you'd have strongly
typed objects, and you could
say, you know, service as
that. So you'd be in
C sharp. If you were
in JavaScript, then you would
program against cloud DB service
zero zero one, that ASMs
slash JS that would give
you a JavaScript representation of
the same proxy, but you'd
be in Java. And then
at that point, bring the
data over and I could
use a string builders and
build up each challenge to,
and whatever, or I could
start using jQuery and start
manipulating the Dom and technique.
Absolutely. So we give you
back a result. Actually, we
give you back an outcome
and right off of the
outcome is either a result
and then also a succeeded.
So we, we have a
little bit of a pattern
that we work with so
that you always get back
the same type of data.
So you can inspect that
outcome object, if the, if
the succeeded is true or
false, and if it's false
and you have an error
that you get back, the
reason why it was false.
And, but just to bringing
this back into Microsoft Ajax,
Microsoft Ajax is going to
really do two things for
us. First is the communication
between the client and the
server and doing all the
object oriented library stuff. So
that's where CIS dot comes
in. Okay. There's a cyst
dot web request. Actually. I
don't know if that's the
complete name.net.net, that web request.
I think that's it. And
then there's, you know, assist
that string builder and their
strings. And there there's that
whole side, Almost like a
mini base class library and
JavaScript. Yeah, Yeah, exactly. And
you know, you can't have
a namespace collision. So instead
of system dot, it's just
shortened to CIS dot. Okay.
And then you have what
you can do actually on
the client, which compared to
jQuery is very limited. You
have some additional properties off
of the base types in
JavaScript. So earlier I mentioned
a string dot format, well,
there's a string type. That's
native in JavaScript, but there's
not a format method off
of it. So that's just
prototyped onto the client. So
there are some client helper
methods like you have a
dollar sign get, which will
help you select items or
select an item. I should
clarify that, which, you know,
on a scale of one
to a hundred from maturity,
comparing jQuery to the Microsoft
Ajax on the selectors jQuery
is probably at like a
95. And MSA Jackson is
probably at like a five.
So there's opposite ends of
the spectrum there. And that's
why they compliment each other
so well because jQuery really
lets you take control of
the dominant data once it's
on the client. And then
the client library for Microsoft
Ajax really gives you the
ability to get that data
back and forth between the
client and the server. So
that the, the code that
I'm writing in jQuery re
really isn't object oriented. I'm
just manipulating an object model.
But as far as object
orientation, like you mentioned at
the beginning, we've got things
like interfaces and exceptions and
inventing is, is something that
is provided by the MSH
X client stuff, Right? And
it's written with the same
pattern and the same look
and feel if you will,
of the source code that
you would write on the
server. So it's something you're
very comfortable with. In fact,
if you look at some
of the documentation or some
of the samples around Microsoft
Ajax, you'll see that it
has a server style feel.
I mean, even if, anytime
I see something with the
objects center event, arcs E
that immediately brings me into
the eventing architecture that I've
kind of been molded into
as a.net developer over the
last eight or nine years.
And so when I see
something like that in JavaScript,
I already know how it
works without having inspected it.
And I think that's the
goal. I mean, we've all
been coding in.net for a
really long time, or a
lot of us, at least
the listeners on your show,
and you already know how
some things work. So if
we can keep that familiarity
in line with the work
that now you're being forced
to do on the client
with some of the richer
internet applications, that's going to
mold with what you're doing
with Silverlight and it's going
to mold with what you're
doing on the server. And
you know, you already know
how this works, so let's
try to give you that
same, same syntax along the
way. And it's not identical,
but it's very simple, Same
vibe. It's bringing up common
patterns called immediate common idioms.
Now, why do you think
that MSA Jack's gets a
bad rap? Why do people
dismiss MSA Jackson? Is it
the update panel that's holding
us back kind of as
a, You know, I think
that the update panel really
is a phenomenal control. And
I do hear people say
bad things about it, but
I think that, you know,
Basically it's bloated, it's complicated,
it's obscure, it's this, you
know, Here's a problem with
a very popular radio show
like yours, right? 99% of
the people are going to
agree with you. And then
1% which may be the
more vocal people will say,
Oh, that's a, you know,
I think the people we
hear poopoo, the update panel
are the same guys who
said, Oh, you know that
Ajax 2.0 stuff we've been,
I've been doing that since
1999. In fact, the XML
HTTP request has been there
forever. I would argue that
the people who don't like
the update panel have a
strong sense of the aesthetic
and they feel that there's
some purity and some terseness
and some clarity, One common
complaint that comes back around
the update panel. And that
is in order to use
it, you have to process
a full page request on
the backside, and that uses
a little bit more server.
And there's, there's not more
bandwidth used because you're not
getting a full page request
object back. You're only getting
back the content that's relevant
as well as some additional
meta content. Like if the
page title changes, if the
view state changes and you
know, to the common developer,
which really is who the
update panel is developed for.
I mean, there's nothing that
says you have to develop
one to get your job
done and they rent it
in there. It's a phenomenal
control. And it does some
amazing things, right? In literally
a matter of 30 seconds,
you can Ajax the data
grid that was written By
the lawn Lipton. The lead
developer on ms. ADA has
put on an NBC. I
actually don't know who wrote
the update panel, but I've
been talking about it for,
I dunno, two or three
years now. And I've always
said in every one of
my talks, that person deserves
a bigger raise. That's the
lead developer on MVC who
works with Phil here. Hang
on Applause. Yeah. I mean,
I think it's a phenomenal
control because if you look
at the, the business developer
who is developing an application
for their sales and they've
written a data grid, data
grid has some phenomenal functionality
to it, right? It's got
an automatic sorting, it's got
paging, it's got all this
thing, the inline edit the
update, the cancel. And if
you can wrap an update
panel around that, that knows
how to hijack that the
magical mystical underscore underscore do
post-bac. That is a phenomenal
thing because it's backward compatible.
The code that I've been
working on for the last
three years now, magically works
in this new web world
by simply wrapping an update
panel. And I agree that
it's not perfect, but it's
much better than making me
spend another two weeks rewriting
my application. Right. You know,
this is just instant plugging.
And this is the tension
point between pure pragmatism and
pure purity. So I like
the pure pragmatism and the
guys that are really smart
and they know what's going
on and they have been
doing it for a decade.
There's no handcuffs on the
update panel that says, you
have to use this, or
you will get fired. Right.
Just one more control within
the right. I mean the
option. Yeah. The update panel
by far is I think
that the most powerful control
inside of the Ajax library.
Wow. I didn't know. I
was stumbling on this whole.
Yeah. I mean, this is
like a crusade of yours.
I was just like, Hey,
why is he up to
the panel? Get a bad
rap. But you felt like
you've put some time in
minutes, Absolute defender of the
update panel because it's an,
it gives immediate gratification. And
for 99% of the developers
that I talked to and
the people that I work
with and user groups and
conferences around the world, they
go to work everyday to
get their job done. And
if they can do something
that just takes a couple
of hours to upgrade an
entire project that they've been
working on forever, then I
think that gives them immediate
gratification. Now that being said,
there are always people who
take advantage of it, right?
So you can nest update
panels and imagine putting an
update panel in a user
control. That was part of
a data grid that gets
rendered out to the page
500 times. And then you
have an update panel on
your master page. That updates
all of those. I mean,
that's obviously bad. And so
I'm not saying that everyone
uses it to its fullest
potential and there's danger with
everything. But I, I still
think that update panel is,
is a phenomenal control. And
the gentleman that you referenced
earlier still deserves a bigger
room. Oh, I will. I
have no power over a
long, but I will tell
the goo I will tell
the goo we should immediately
promote Elon. Well, cool. Well,
thanks so much, Scott, Kate
for sitting down with me
to talk about HX here.
And so, yeah, We'll have
to do it a little
closer to home. You know,
we only live probably, I
dunno, a thousand miles, maybe
not even that far 800
miles, I'm in Arizona and
you're in Oregon, Oregon. So
it's a shame we had
to come literally halfway around
the world to get together,
but I'm anxious to do
your show again. It's a
good time. Cool. Thanks a
lot. And everyone be sure
to check out easy DB
com and cloud db.com, check
out some of the stuff
that Scott's working on. And
this has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. I'll see
you again next week. .